[Music]
good morning welcome to breakfast with
nagawan chetty and charlie steak our
headlines today
two health unions say they're prepared
to strike as pressure grows on the
government over its pay offer
to nhs staff a warning of
unnecessary self-isolation for school
children because of
inaccurate coronavirus test results
nasa's perseverance rover takes its
first drive
on the surface of mars as it begins to
explore the red planet
good morning britain strikes gold at the
european indoor athletics and it's a
dream come true for amy eloise markov
who wins the 3000 meters in poland
and high pressure's here this weekend so
we should see plenty of dry
unsettled conditions but over the coming
days we see quite a dramatic change i'll
be back with all the details
[Music]
good morning saturday the 6th of march
our top story today pressure is mounting
on the government over its proposed
pay offer of 1 for health workers in
england after it was claimed
that a long-term plan had assumed an
increase of double that
nhs providers which represents trusts in
england
has accused ministers of snatching
planned pay rises from the pockets of
deserving nhs staff
four health unions have written to the
chancellor urging him to reconsider
our health editor hugh pim has more
nhs providers is the first employers
group to wade into the health service
payroll in england
it argues that a long-term government
financial plan for the nhs in 2019
included a commitment to pay staff a
wage increase of just over two percent
from this april
the organization said the pandemic had
strengthened the case for better staff
pay
so it was very disappointing that only
one percent was now being proposed
government sources said there was
unprecedented strain on public finances
which could not have been foreseen when
the nhs long-term plan was drawn up
the royal college of nursing and the
united union said they were considering
strike action
but the health secretary defended the
plan at the downing street briefing
the challenge is that the nation's
finances are
tight and whilst everybody else in the
public sector
is going to have a pay freeze we are
able to give a uh to propose a pay
rise for nurses at one percent
i entirely appreciate that that reflects
the difficult financial circumstances
that the
country is in a government spokesperson
said nhs staff continued to benefit from
multi-year pay deals
including over 12 percent for newly
qualified nurses
but four health unions have written to
the chancellor calling on him to think
again about a proposal
they said was unfair to staff who'd been
on the front line of the pandemic
hugh pim bbc news
a soldier has died during a training
exercise involving live
ammunition in wales sbt our
correspondent simon jones is in our
london newsroom now monica's time just
take us through what we know so far
about the incident
well this happened at the castle martin
training ranges in pembrokeshire on
thursday evening now it was a nighttime
exercise involving the firing of live
ammunition the mod hasn't explained
exactly what happened but in a statement
it described the incident as tragic
it said the next of kin of the soldier
had been informed and it said its
thoughts are with
his family and his friends what we do
know is he was a soldier from the welsh
regiment now we know he'd been serving
for a good length of time because he was
recently given a long service medal by
prince charles who's the colonel of the
regiment
now his father on facebook has written a
tribute he said it's one of the hardest
things he's ever had to write he said he
was
heartbroken and devastated he said his
son was doing the job that he loved
and he said what had happened well it
had a huge effect on the family
now this isn't the first incident that
we've had at this particular training
range because
four years ago two soldiers were killed
when a tank exploded
and then back in 2012 similar to what
happened this week a soldier was killed
he was shot in the head
during a training exercise an
investigation is underway that's going
to involve the local police at david
powers
as well as the royal military police and
the defense investigation
action force they're going to look into
exactly what happened the key thing is
going to be whether any lessons need to
be learned immediately to stop something
like this happening again
simon thank you police say they're
increasingly concerned about the
disappearance of a woman in south london
sarah everard who is 33 years old spoke
to her partner on the phone
whilst walking from clapham junction to
brixton in south london on wednesday
evening
which was the last time anyone heard
from her a friend said it was extremely
uncharacteristic for her to be missing
health authorities have successfully
traced to previously unidentified
person infected with a more contagious
covert variant which was first found in
brazil
on sunday it was announced that six
cases
the p1 variant had been found in the uk
but the identity of
one of the cases was unknown that person
has now been found
in croydon in south london where they
had quarantined
at home there are fears that thousands
of school children in england and their
families could be forced to
isolate as a result of so-called false
positives this is when coronavirus
mascaronova's testing begins next week
every secondary school pupil will be
offered three rapid result
tests over the next fortnight as part of
government plans to bring children back
into the classroom
our health correspondent nick trigle has
more
the tests that will be used in schools
in england
are designed to give quick on the spot
results
but it's thought for every 1 000 carried
out
between one and three will result in an
incorrect positive result
a so-called false positive when these
tests are carried out at home
users are entitled to a standard covid
test that is processed in a lab
to check the result is right but this
will not be happening with the tests in
schools
instead it will be assumed the rapid
test is correct
the raw statistical society and testing
experts
are worried low infection rates could
cause a higher proportion of positive
cases to be false
meaning thousands of pupils and families
could be forced to isolate for no reason
the main concerns are that actually the
tests
aren't going to be finding very many
cases at all
the data from the last week of testing
from the government from three hundred
thousand
uh uh children and staff being tested
they were finding one positive for every
one and a half thousand
people being tested and that means that
the
tests are both missing cases and it's a
large amount of effort and work being
done
put into this to find very very little
the government insists the testing
regime will have a positive impact
by identifying asymptomatic cases that
would otherwise be missed
it says around one in three people who
have coronavirus has no
symptoms nick triggle bbc news
pope francis is meeting one of the most
powerful leaders in the
shia muslim world grand ayatollah ali
al-sistani as he continues his tour of
iraq this morning his landmark visit
began yesterday when he met the iraqi
president
baram sala our rome correspondent mark
lowen has more
still masked but no longer grounded
pope francis's first trip since covid
is riskiest of all a perilous pilgrimage
to iraq
in the grip of a pandemic
on the first ever papal visit here he
told me he was very happy
calling it special
beneath the pomp is a significant
message
dialogue between faiths and support for
persecuted christians
no open top pope mobile here in a
country
torn by conflict an outstretched hand
through an armored car
was almost will see
but less protection from the other
danger here the pandemic
little social distancing and few masks
are what's worrying many
after a meeting with the president the
pope called for an
end to extremism
only if we learn to look beyond our
differences and see each other
as members of the same human family will
we be able to begin
an effective process of rebuilding
for iraq's dwindling christians it's
like a salvation
viva papa francis hanan who named her
son after pope francis
has watched as much of her community
were killed or forced to flee
we've been dreaming of this visit day
and night she says
we must stop the bloodbath and we must
stay in iraq
today in najaf will be perhaps the most
significant moment of the visit
when pope francis meets iraq's top shia
cleric
ayatollah al-sistani leaders of two
faiths often at violent odds coming
together
in rare unity the risk is that the
symbolic
importance of this trip is overshadowed
by coveted concerns
and that it becomes a super spreader but
a defiant pope francis believes this
nation has waited
long enough for a papal visit and that
there is no time to lose
to bring a message of peace and hope to
iraq
mark lowen bbc news baghdad
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc
dot co dot uk forward slash news follow
the story for all the latest with bbc
news